#summary On JRebel installation and usage.

For a detailed FAQ, refer to an [http://zeroturnaround.com/software/jrebel/resources/ official documentation].


= Why should I use it? =

Because it does actually (hopefully) speed up the code-deploy-test cycle. It decreases turnaround by instantly reloading changes to your code after the compilation, without having to restart the container or redeploy the application, and does it in a matter of milliseconds.


= How does it work? =

There is some JVM magic including Java agent and bytecode instrumentation inside. For instance, this article covers some of this topic:

[http://zeroturnaround.com/jrebel/reloading_java_classes_401_hotswap_jrebel/ Reloading Java Classes: HotSwap and JRebel — Behind the Scenes]


= How to install? =

A detailed guide for Intellij is [http://zeroturnaround.com/software/jrebel/download/using-jrebel-with-intellij/ here]. Actually, it's enough to install the IDEA plug-in (by coincidence called 'JRebel') with no additional downloads required.

NetBeans is also supported, the guide is [http://zeroturnaround.com/software/jrebel/download/installing-jrebel-for-netbeans/ here].

== Licensing ==

JRebel is not free, but there's a "convenient patch" on [http://rutracker.org/forum/viewtopic.php?t=3384501 RuTracker]. You can also request a 14-day trial.

As for an aforementioned patch and IDEA, copy _jrebel.jar_ to _%USERPROFILE%/.IntelliJIdea12/config/plugins/jr-ide-idea/lib/jrebel_ and restart IDEA.


= Usage in IDEA =

 # Use IDEA >= 12 because of a [http://blogs.jetbrains.com/idea/2012/06/brand-new-compiler-mode-in-intellij-idea-12-leda new compilation mode].
 # IDE plug-in adds run configurations called 'Run application with JRebel agent' and 'Debug application with JRebel agent'.
 # Current setup of JRebel config requires environment variables to be specified in the JVM options. See [http://code.google.com/p/osznconnection/source/browse/trunk/osznconnection-web/src/main/resources/rebel.xml rebel.xml] for a list of those.
 # If something goes wrong, add _-Drebel.log=true_ option to the JVM command-line and see _%USERPROFILE%/.IntelliJIdea12/config/plugins/jr-ide-idea/lib/jrebel/jrebel.log_ for the debugging output.